# Power-BI-Dashboard

Live link: https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/reports/ddabaac3-99ff-4db6-9147-8ac161eb48a1/4635de7e9e32cb10b61e?experience=power-bi

# MASSCHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL  GROUP KPI REPORT

## DATASET:
Link: https://mavenanalytics.io/challenges/maven-hospital-challenge/facee4d2-8369-4c87-a55e-e6c7ed2a42d8

1. ENCOUNTERS : Start Date, Patient ID, Organization, Payer ID, Payer Name, Encounter Class, Code, Procedure Discription, Base Encounter Cost, Reason Code, Payer Coverage, Total Claim Cost.
Dataset size: 27892

2. PATIENTS: Patient ID, Name, Address, Birthdate, Death date,, Gender,  Marital Status, Race, Ethnicity, County . Dataset size: 972

3. PROCEDURE: Start and Stop Time, Patient ID, Encounter ID, Description, Reason Code, Description, Cost. Dataset size: 47702

4. PAYER: ID, Name, Address, Phone. Data size: 10

5. ORGANIZATION:  ID, Name, Address. Data size: 1


## OBJECTIVE:
1. Key Insights from Massachusetts General Hospital's Latest performance Analysis.
2. Overview of Patient demographics and medical Records.
3. Number of Patients admitted and readmitted over the period of time.
4. Analysis of Encounters of the Hospital No. of Patient visit per day and respective expense.
5. Revenue generated by the hospital month wise and year wise.
6. Encounters type covered by Insurance.
7. Insurance company profile and the cost covered by them.

## ANALYSIS PERFORMED

1. Count of total Unique Patients (card)
2. Count of Readmitted Patients (card)
3. Percentage of patients readmitted (card)
4. Death Rate (card) -> Measure
5. Count of Total Encounters
6. Distribution of ethnicity, race, marital status of patients (Donut Chart)
7. Analysis of top 5 expensive procedures (horizontal bar chart)
8. Analysis of top 5 reasons for admission (bar chart)
9. Month and year wise Revenue and insurance coverage vs avaerage patient vists (Line and clustered column chart)
10. Most affected Age group, gender wise (Clustered column chart)
11. Service areas (map)
12. Total Revenue generated (card)
13. Total Insuange coverage amount (card)
14. Insurance Holder % (pie chart)
15. Highly Insured encounter type (pie)
16. Analysis of Insuance company and the amount insured by them for each procedure and encounter and total cost. (matrix table)
17. Cost analysis of encounter types (bar chart)
18. Year, Age, Race, ethnicity, Gender, city filter (Slicers)

## KEY FINDINGS

1.  There are 974 Unique patients
2.  Out of which, 118 patients got readmitted which is 12.11%
3.  The average death rate = 15.81% over 12 years (2011 - 2022)
4.  Upto 27.89K cases have been encountered by the hospital.
5. ender distribution: 51% M, 49% F
6. Most Expensive procedure : Coronary artery bypass grafting (0.206 million $)
7. Age group 70+ males are highly affected
8. A revenues of 104.75 million $ been generated out of which 31M $ was covered by insurance
9. 68% patients are insurance holder, 31% has no insurance coverage
10. Medicare and Medicaid are two top insurance company who covers most of the insurance claim about 19M$ and 8M$ repectively
    


